Hello and welcome.
In this lecture, we are going to be starting to add even more functionality into our behavior tree
by adding a custom task.
This clear blackboard value going to make that entirely custom in C++.
Let's dive in and see how to do it.
OK, so I'd like to expand out the behavior of this behavior tree so that we can get to investigate.
And once we're done investigating, we move on to going back home.
So I'm going to add a little move to task here afterwards, which just returns us to the start location.
And what we need to do in order to get there is to have some notion of whether we've already visited
the last known play location.
And the way I'm going to do that is essentially by unsettling the last known play location once we have
investigated it.
Now, if we don't currently have a way of doing that.
But first of all, let's create the decorator.
So add a decorator to investigating Blackbaud that is going to be going to go and rename it to has investigated
like so and this is going to check if the last name player location is set.
And that means that we need to have some sort of node that allows us to unset a blackboard key.
Now, that doesn't actually exist.
You two thought it does, but it doesn't.
So this is a great opportunity for me to show you how we can create a custom task.
Now, you could do it very easily using blueprints or work.
I'm going to show you the slightly hard away.
But the one that gives you a lot of power, which is doing it through C++.
So we're going to go over to main content brands that go to add new and go to new C++ class.
And we're gonna want to show all classes checkbox.
And then we're searching for B.T. Task.
And there's a lots of options here.
You can see a lot of them are actually those built in tasks such as make noise or there is a move to
here or wait.
Now, you could go and have a look at the C++ to see how those are implemented.
That's always useful.
But what we're interested in is what should we inherit from what should we use as the basis for our
own node?
Now, as a couple of options here, you could choose to have a B.T. task node as your basis, or you
could use the blackboard base.
Now, what's the difference between the two?
Let's have a quick look.
So move to actually uses the blackboard base.
And what that means is that it has this blackboard key dropdown that allows us to choose a blackboard
key to work with.
That means we don't have to hard code into our task.
The blackboard keys that we're working with, which is great because it allows us to reuse those tasks
in different situations.
So if you need a blackboard key, then the blackboard base is a great ones go with.
Otherwise you use the other one.
So let's go and add new add a new C++ class again, show all classes and we're looking for the Beattie
task again.
And we salute selecting the blackboard base hit next.
Now I'm going to rename this to Beatty Task Underscore.
Clear blackboard value.
I'm going to go ahead and create that class here.
Now, initially, this will fail.
So let's click.
Yes.
And see what the error message is here.
It's saying something about L and K, which stands for Link, unresolved external symbol, blah, blah,
blah.
Usually when you've got this kind of error from the Hlinka, this is saying that you've got something
in your head of files that wasn't in your C++ or in this case, it means that there isn't a module included
that we are relying upon and based on the types of symbols that it's looking for.
I can see here it's the I gameplay task owner interface.
It seems to be looking for something to do with game play tasks and that that is a module in actual
fact.
So if we go over to our Visual Studio code and just open up the file browser, just going to scroll
up to my project then under source, simple shooter, there should be a simple shooter dot build dot
C.
S or whatever your project name is.
Dot build.
Yes.
And in here, if I give us a little bit more space, you can see that we've got this public dependencies,
module names and the module name here that we want to add to this list is going to be gameplay.
Tasks.
With an S..
And if we go ahead and add that and go back and compile now, hopefully everything should compile successfully.
For whatever reason, this doesn't automatically get added when you override for the Beattie task.
Now, once that's done, let's go and have a look at what was created here.
We should have a new class, which is our BTR task, underscore a clear blackboard value, and it's
pretty empty at the moment.
Now, what I want to do is if we were to add this in to our behavior tree at the moment, it would have
an ugly name.
So we want a nice human readable name for this task.
And the way we're gonna do this is by adding in a constructor and setting a property.
So let's create a public constructor here.
The constructor always has the same name as the class, so we can copy that.
Doesn't need to take any arguments.
Semicolon at the end.
And then let's create the implementation over in the C++.
And the implementation just needs to set a variable called node name.
So if you set node name and then you use a string, then the string that we set is gonna be the node
name.
So it's gonna be clear.
Blackbaud.
Value just with the spaces and the correct capitalization should be nice and easy.
Now, one thing that I forgot to do at the time of recording is to surround this by the text macro.
Now, you should go ahead and do that in your code, but you'll see that in my code it will persist
in just being like this.
And we should be able to go and compile that.
Now.
Awesome, that compiled successfully.
So I challenge you to add this new node.
So add it to the end of the investigation behavior and just check that it completes basically it should
automatically complete without doing anything at all.
But check the names.
Correct.
Check.
They are able to add it and we'll look at adding the behavior in the next lecture.
So pause video and have a go.
OK.
Welcome back.
So let's go to our enemy a I and add in at the end of the investigate behavior.
We're going to add in our clear Blackbaud value.
You can see that's got the nice name there.
And you can also see that if you go over to the details pain, you can select a blackboard key.
We're going to select the last name play location, even though that doesn't do anything yet.
You can see that we have that functionality because we inherited from Blackbaud Base.
And let's just check that it completes automatically.
Should do.
And then it should move on.
Let's move it onto a Waite's task afterwards so that we can see that just goes straight through or completes
automatically.
So I'm going to play I am going to go and hide myself round a corner as much as I can, and then I'm
going to go and have a look at the investigating it went through.
And actually, he's seen me.
So let's go and hide again.
Go and hide round the corner if I can.
Here we go, and then I'm going to go to the.
They go.
It's gone right through the clear Blackbaud value, which must mean that it succeeded because we know
if it was a sequence and it failed.
It must have.
It will have stopped and not gone onto the weight.
So that's working correctly.
The clear blackboard value is just returning success straight away and going on to waiting.
The next lecture, we're gonna look at how we can actually add in the functionality.
I'll see there.